how do you define hate well you just
said you allow the purported target of
the hate to Define it and what they do
is they say that they
feel hated so it's a second order form
of
evidence the primary evidence in
principle is their subjective emotion
but you don't have access to that so you
have to accept their record of their
subjective emotion and you accept that
in a manner that isn't questionable
there's no higher authority than than
their say so and the problem with that
it's this it's a variant of the problem
with the informants is that that only
works well it would never work let's get
that clear yeah but that only works in
the ideal situation
where people have perfect understanding
of the motivation of others which they
don't and also they're not
lying the problem with that definition
of subjective harm is it lays the gates
wide open to the melians and the
Psychopaths yes yes and and and you're
also touching on two other important
things right so number one
unlike most criminal offenses which
require intent of some kind the intent
is not on whether the speaker meant to
be hateful yeah it's not intent is not
relevant right that's terrifying and
also the other thing that's not relevant
is truth if you speak a true fact that
is interpreted as a hateful fact and has
its effect on somebody well that's not
going to be a defense either right right
so you aren't essentially one of the
effects of this kind of legislation is
to say you are not allowed to speak the
truth right because that truth
regardless of intent regardless of
intent regardless of intent and
regardless of historical fact yeah we we
are we are outlawing an
effect yeah right right right absolutely
okay and to expand that even even
further uh with comedy it's interesting
because of course Scotland where some of
the most ridiculous legislation is being
passed is the place which hosts the
biggest arts and Comedy Festival in the
world The edra Fringe right um and uh to
your point about truth well you don't
even have to be saying something true at
this point now they've passed the bill
which means that comedians could be
investigated for jokes they make now
that is a level of Detachment from
Context and reality that is even a level
above simply or someone made a true
comment what if I said something
sarcastically on stage as a comedian and
what's interesting is comedy seems to be
being very particularly targeted but
nobody goes to McBeth at the theater and
says oh I went to the theater and then
this guy went crazy and stabbed his
friend no no one says that but with
comedy for some reason the character on
stage is increasingly being perceived as
having the
opinions that he's jokingly saying um
and so that that's another level so what
right there's no distinction between the
role and the actor quite and and what
what's interesting if you abstract even
further from that if you've watched Game
of Thrones the the scene where you
really truly discover that King
Joffrey's gone mad is when he cuts off
the tongue of the jester in his court
and this is this symbolism is it's
perfect it's been used throughout
history to portray uh the final
conversion into tyranny of of a of a
ruler that's how that's why there was
gestures is like that was one of the
ways everybody could tell he was that
the the king wasn't a tyrant right is
that he could tolerate his own gesture
is fool or welcome him or find him
amusing that would be best and this is
something that happened when Vladimir
Putin first came to power in Russia
under Boris yelson there was a kind of
liberalization there was an opening up
of because in the Soviet Union you
didn't make fun of the political leaders
nothing was funny in this that was true
the jokes that people told at the
kitchen table were funny but not in
public of course um but under Boris hson
there was an opening up and we had this
amazing TV show which was the equivalent
of the British spitting image I don't
know if you had similar thing did you
have spit no no I know of it though yeah
and it was basically puppets portraying
the different political characters and
and the first thing Vladimir Putin did
when he came to power was to shut that
down so historically throughout
literature and other things if you if
you're looking for symptoms of tyranny
the shutting down of jokes and humor is
isans are canaries in The coine
Comedians and Automobiles as far as I'm
concerned yeah yeah well they're they're
so emblematic of personal autonomy every
Tyrant hates the automobile so even
though they all want to have one okay so
let's delve into the hate issue a bit
more too because in Canada we have
protected categories of hate right so
you it's a hate crime if
it's I want to make sure I've got this
definition right it's a hate crime if it
can be shown if your utterance can be
shown to be discriminate discriminate
against a protected class well yes so so
so it's not merely that you hurt
people's feelings right it's it's that
corre they have to hurt them for a
particular reason well it's a
discriminatory ter so so we have these
two Realms we have the the human rights
realm and we have the criminal realm and
we we've had hate speech restrictions in
our criminal law for a good while and
they're rarely used um the the the human
rights Provisions are much more
frequently used because because they're
much less serious and much easier to
trigger much easier to complain about
and and they don't go to a court they go
to one of these tribunals right but we
one of the problems is the dovetailing
of this hate speech discriminatory
practice idea along with the the
equality problem that I was just
describing before right so as with any
rule this rule is going to be applied
and interpreted in One Direction and not
the other what I mean by that is if you
go around saying
that um white people are are are hateful
or privileged or colonists or whatever
the case may be that that's pretty
hateful if you say that're all that you
know if you're white you are X you're
being stereotypical and you're making a
blanket statement about all these people
who are white that's not going to be
entertained as hate speech because of
the way that our equality law has been
interpreted which is and this is one
thing that the Ontario Human Rights
tribunal said fairly recently they said
people who are
white cannot be discriminated against
yeah yeah I really but you're not a
protected group they are not a protected
group some some animals are more equal
than others exactly so so so this this
kind of law the hate speech law is
likely to be interpreted in that way
which is oh you can
only utter hate speech against protected
groups if you if you utter hate speech
against those other people who are not
in one of those there's no hate speech
against the oppressor classes it doesn't
qualify and by the way this isn't Theory
no this is so in in Scotland for example
they passed this bill on the 1st of
April of course they did recently uh and
uh in the first week of it being passed
there were more reports of hate speech
than there had been in the previous
several years and the reason was that
many many people reported a speech given
by ham yusf the first minister of
Scotland in which he was being openly
racist against white people right um and
of course this is this isn't considered
a hate crime and you know it was the BBC
interviewed Hamza YF where they the
interviewer and the he himself laughed
sort of you know almost gratuitously oh
how how silly uh you know people would s
of course this is complete nonsense and
frankly he said I'm not aware of anyone
who's not on the far right who would
report this as hate speech right it's an
absolute case of some animals more equal
than others and the law is I'm sure you
would agree written specifically to
create that situation absolutely